# SDPA Banking Project

This project arose the task of creating an online banking system that allowed users to create accounts, manage their money, change their PIN, and many other things.
In this file, I am going to give you a detailed report of my classes, functions, and methods to create a fully functioning banking system using Python and Object
Oriented Programming. I am going to be going through the two Python files and CSV file giving a full description of how I conquered the task presented to me.

Firstly, I am going to talk about all the classes I used to complete this task. The classes that I used to complete this task were all written in the file entitled
Customer_Account_Class.py. There were a total of 6 classes used in this project: Customer_Account, Customer_Action, Checking_Account, Savings_Account, Freeze_Account and Login_User. Customer_Account is the main parent class as it is the parent class of Customer_Action. All remaining classes are child classes of Customer_Action. These classes all worked together to create a fully functioning main programme implemented in the main.py file. This part of the project is where users can interact with classes using the text based interface that I created to work with the Object Oriented Programming.

I would like to talk about each the classes, their functions and attributes in chronological order. Customer_Account was the first class that I created when I started the project. This class contains an '__init__' fucntion which initialises name, age, balance, pin, and account number. I imported the Python library random for the account number to be unique. I specified that the account number had to be a random integer between 1,000,000 and 9,999,999 and that no account number can equal another persons account number. I made this so that the account number can act as a unique way for a customer to be identified when I needed a customer in the system (such as logging in/out). Further, I ensured that each input in the system was correct; e.g, age must be an integer, balance can be a float, and name must be a string. This makes the application stronger since you cannot enter strings for age and integers for name. The second and final fucntion in this class was the createaccount function. The function allowed users input their information into the system and 
